## 3) Requirements

### 1.0 Program Foundation

####  1. 1 Policy

**A written Open Source policy exists that governs Open Source license compliance of the Supplied Software. The policy must be internally communicated.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 1.1.1 A documented Open Source policy.
- 1.1.2 A documented procedure that makes Software Staff aware of the existence of the Open Source policy (_e.g._, via training, internal wiki, or other practical communication method).

##### Rationale :
To ensure steps are taken to create, record and make Software Staff aware of the existence of an Open Source policy. Although no requirements are provided here on what should be included in the policy, other sections may impose requirements on the policy.



#### 1.2 Competence

**The organization shall:**

- **Identify the roles and the corresponding responsibilities of those roles that affects the performance and effectiveness of the Program;**
- **Determine the necessary competence of person(s) fulfilling each role**
- **Ensure that these persons are competent on the basis of appropriate education, training, and/or experience;**
- **Where applicable, take actions to acquire the necessary competence; and**
- **Retain appropriate documented information as evidence of competence.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 1.2.1 A documented list of roles with corresponding responsibilities for the different participants in the Program.
- 1.2.2 A document that identifies the competencies for each role.
- 1.2.3 Documented evidence of assessed competence for each Program participant.

##### Rationale :
To ensure that the identified participants fulfilling Program roles have obtained a sufficient level of competence for their respective roles and responsibilities.



#### 1.3         Awareness

**The organization shall ensure that Program participants are aware of:**

**a) The Open Source policy;**
**b) Relevant Open Source objectives;**
**c) Their contribution to the effectiveness of the Program; and**
**d) The implications of not following the Program&#39;s requirements.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 1.3.1 Documented evidence of assessed awareness for each Program personnel including the Program&#39;s objectives, ones contribution within the Program, and implications of Program non-conformance.

##### Rationale :
To ensure Program personnel have obtained a sufficient level of awareness for their respective roles and responsibilities within the Program.



#### 1.4        Program Scope

**Different Programs may be governed by different levels of scope. For example, a program could govern a single product line, an entire department or an entire organization. The scope designation needs to be declared for each Program.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 1.4.1 A written statement that clearly defines the scope and limits of the Program.

##### Rationale :
To provide the flexibility to construct a Program that best fits the scope of an organization&#39;s needs. Some organizations could choose to maintain a Program for a specific product line while others could implement a Program to govern the Supplied Software of the entire organization.



#### 1.5        License Obligations

**A process exists for reviewing the Identified Licenses to determine the obligations, restrictions and rights granted by each license.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 1.5.1 A documented procedure to review and document the obligations, restrictions and rights granted by each Identified License.

##### Rationale :

To ensure a process exists for reviewing and identifying the license obligations for each Identified License for the various use cases an organization may encounter (as defined in requirement 3.2).

