### 2.0 Relevant Tasks Defined and Supported

#### 2.1         Access

**Maintain a process to effectively respond to external Open Source inquiries. Publicly identify a means by which a third party can make an Open Source compliance inquiry.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 2.1.1 Publicly visible method that allows any third party to make an Open Source license compliance inquiry (_e.g._, via a published contact email address, or the Linux Foundation&#39;s Open Compliance Directory).

- 2.1.2 An internal documented procedure for responding to third party Open Source license compliance inquiries.

##### Rationale :
To ensure there is a reasonable way for third parties to contact the organization with regard to Open Source compliance inquiries and that the organization is prepared to effectively respond.



#### 2.2          Effectively Resourced

**Identify and Resource Program Task(s):**

- **Assign accountability to ensure the successful execution of Program tasks.**
- **Program tasks are sufficiently resourced:**
  - **Time to perform the tasks have been allocated; and**
  - **Adequate funding has been allocated.**
- **A process exists for reviewing and updating the policy and supporting tasks;**
- **Legal expertise pertaining to Open Source license compliance is accessible to those who may need such guidance; and**
- **A process exists for the resolution of Open Source license compliance issues.**

##### Verification Material(s):

- 2.2.1 Document with name of persons, group or function in Program role(s) identified.
- 2.2.2 The identified Program roles have been properly staffed and adequate funding provided.
- 2.2.3 Identification of legal expertise available to address Open Source license compliance matters which could be internal or external.
- 2.2.4 A documented procedure that assigns internal responsibilities for Open Source compliance.
- 2.2.5 A documented procedure for handling the review and remediation of non-compliant cases.

##### Rationale :

To ensure: i) Program responsibilities are effectively supported and resourced and ii) policies and supporting processes are regularly updated to accommodate changes in Open Source compliance best practices.
